# Convex_Hull_Finding_App

## Requirements:

App was developed on an unix system (Ubuntu to be precise), and so .sh file was 
included that would clean up everything generated by cmake and make files, 
apart from the executable files themselves.

The application is written in C++ and also running it requires Qt5 and QCustomPlot libraries.

To set up a C/C++ compiler, simply run in the termial:

`sudo apt-get update`
`sudo apt-get install build-essential gdb`

To download Qt5 library run this command:

`sudo apt install qt5-default`

Then, to set up QCustomPlot you will need to visit this repository: 
https://github.com/legerch/QCustomPlot-library
and then clone it into dependencies directory (which should be created in ConvexHullFinding direcotry) by running:

`git init`
`git clone https://github.com/legerch/QCustomPlot-library`

from there.

## Using the app:

After setting up everything up as disclosed above, simply run from within the 
ConvexHullFinding directory:

`cmake .`
`make`
`./clean_up.sh` <- not neccessary, but it deletes the files that are not needed for the app to run

Now the app is ready to use. Run it by executing the command:

`build/output/amd64/bin/ConvexHullFinding`

Should this command not work, please find where ConvexHullFinding executable is within the build directory and run approprietly modified command.

## How exactly do I use the app:

After starting the app, instructions on what to do are in the area in the bottom centre of the window. In the repository there is also a file with example data for which the convex hull can be found. Simply copy and paste the contents of the file into the text area and press Run/Run and visualize.

The is how data should be entered into the text area:

(a, b)
(c, d)
(e, f)
etc.

i.e. points should be typed in consecutive lines and also the spacebar between the comma and the second coordinate in needed. Typing in the same point multiple times will not lead to any unexpected behaviour. Also trying to remove the point that is not in the scroll area to the left will not cause any errors. Pressing the label button of a point that is not currently in the plot will not cause any issues.

## What can lead to unexpected behaviour:

Don't display the current stack while the algorithm is running in the visualization mode unless Halt has been pressed.
